# Revenue Per Click Problem

Performance marketing is an important channel for E-Commerce industry to present its product to potential customers. Especially Search Engine Marketing (SEM) shows high potential. SEM means showing advertisements next to the results a search engine returns for a user’s search query.

The participation in SEM requires the advertiser to define keywords. Keywords are strings defining what queries should trigger advertisements. Don’t be mislead by the name, a keyword can consist of several words. A typical keyword could be “London guided tour”. Obviously, different users with the same search intent will formulate different queries. To capture this diversity, each keyword is combined with a match type. The match type defines if the advertiser is only interested to advertise if the user queries exactly for the keyword or if there is some more freedom. Typical match types are query matches keyword exactly (“London guided tour”), query contains keyword (“London guided tour via bus”), query contains synonyms of keyword (“Tour with guide in London”).

The advertiser can set a price for each keyword/match type combination. She can even refine her price setting by taking the device (computer, mobile, …) into account. She is furthermore free to update the prices whenever she wants. The set price mainly determines if her advertisement is shown to the user instead of a competitor’s one. Although the price decides on if the advertisement is shown, the advertiser only has to pay if the user clicks on the advertisement. A click redirects the user to the advertiser’s website offering him products that match what she was searching for. All the money the particular user spends in the next days on the advertiser’s website is attributed to the click, i.e. it is assumed that all the revenue the user generated with her conversions (=bookings, orders) after clicking on the advertisement was triggered by the advertisement.

Online platform provide easily thousands of products. Each product can have several relevant keywords such that the number of managed keywords is immense. Therefore, a hierarchy helps to categorize keywords. Keywords belonging to the same product are collected in an ad group. Several ad groups can contain the same keyword, the combination of keyword and ad group is then again unique. Ad groups with a similar scope are bundled in a campaign. Campaigns for a common target audience are collected in the same account.
A crucial question to answer when pricing the keywords is how much revenue one can expect from a click. In other words, what is the expected Revenue per Click (RPC). Answering this question addresses this project.

